Articles of Association for Pulumiverse (#13)
pulumiverse/.github: governance/articles-of-association.md

# Articles of Association for Pulumiverse

> Pulumiverse is a non-profit organization to grow a community to share ideas,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumiverse is an online community to share ideas,
```

projects and build Open Source software amongst Pulumi users, developers and
enthusiasts.

> This document regulates this organization; you'll find information about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document regulates this community; you'll find information about
```

becoming a contributor, how and when to vote for board members and how policies
are changed.

## Contributors

Contributors are the core of Pulumiverse. To become a contributor, all you have
to do is open an issue(s) or pull request(s). Contributors can earn voting

> rights by either becoming a member of the Open Source Initiative or submitting

Author: My thinking here is this: We want to protect ourselves from a _takeover_, so having people either become a member of the Open Source Initiative (which is $40) makes all that harder to do.

You also get voting rights by contributing. I just set an arbitrary number of ten for now, but we can see what makes sense down the line.

> more than ten contributions collectively across Pulumiverse repositories. Voting

Author: ```suggestion
more than ten contributions collectively across Pulumiverse repositories each year. Voting
```

Should probably not earn a lifetime of voting rights, just because you made ten contributions?

rights are only made valid by being added to the membership roster (feel free to

> open a pull request).

Author: Not sure how we solve a membership roster, ideas welcome. Maybe we don't need it?

## Community-elected Board

Pulumiverse has a board that consists of five board members. Board members hold
their role for two years; voting is staggered as such:

We elect board members 1 and 2 in year 1, elected for two years. In year 2, we
elect board members 3, 4 and 5. We elect board members 3, 4 and 5 for one year

> the first year.

Author: @mattstratton as we talked about, staggering the election isn't easy. Hopefully, this makes sense?

I'm thinking we'll actually use _member 1_ and _member 2_ (and etc.) when we have elections. Which means a person would hold the member 1 position officially. Maybe these could have better naming, I dunno. Does the concept make sense?

> Everyone be can be nominated to become a board member, either by being nominated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone (regardless of contributor or voting rights status) be can be nominated to become a board member, either by being nominated
```

> by others or sending your nomination to current board members before the annual

Author: Should we restrict board member seats for contributors with voting rights?

The obvious issue is: If we want to nominate someone they either have to pay for an Open Source Initiative membership or actively contribute to Pulumiverse. This minimizes the number of potential candidates.

The positive side is that we only get people who are committed to Pulumiverse / Open Source.

> community meeting. In addition, employees of Pulumi (or people directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
community meeting. In addition, employees of Pulumi Corporation (or people directly
```

> connected with Pulumi) are welcome to participate as board members, but with no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connected with Pulumi Corporation) are welcome to participate as board members, but with no
```

> more than two members.

Author: Notice that we've blocked for more than two members to be employees (or directly connected) with Pulumi.

Feedback?

Reviewer 2: Is ok on my side.

> more than two members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more than two members are currently employed by Pulumi Corporation. 
```

## Community Meeting

> The community meeting is the highest level of power in the Pulumiverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The community meeting is the highest level of influence and ability for change in the Pulumiverse
```

organization. All contributors and members are welcome to join the community
meeting. Voting rights are not required to spectate and post suggestions.

> Community meetings will be held annually by mid-November. This yearly community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least one community meeting will be held annually by 1 November. This yearly community
```

# Articles of Association for Pulumiverse

Pulumiverse is an online community to share ideas,
projects and build Open Source software amongst Pulumi users, developers and
enthusiasts.

This document regulates this community; you'll find information about
becoming a contributor, how and when to vote for board members and how policies
are changed.

## Contributors

Contributors are the core of Pulumiverse. To become a contributor, all you have
to do is open an issue(s) or pull request(s). Contributors can earn voting

> rights by either becoming a member of the Open Source Initiative or submitting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rights by either becoming a member of the Open Source Initiative, submitting
```

> more than ten contributions collectively across Pulumiverse repositories each year. Voting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more than ten contributions collectively across Pulumiverse GitHub organization repositories annually, or being an active maintainer of a repository in the Pulumiverse GitHub organization. Voting
```

rights are only made valid by being added to the membership roster (feel free to
open a pull request).

## Community-elected Board

Pulumiverse has a board that consists of five board members. Board members hold
their role for two years; voting is staggered as such:

We elect board members 1 and 2 in year 1, elected for two years. In year 2, we
elect board members 3, 4 and 5. We elect board members 3, 4 and 5 for one year
the first year.

Everyone be can be nominated to become a board member, either by being nominated
by others or sending your nomination to current board members before the annual
community meeting. In addition, employees of Pulumi (or people directly
connected with Pulumi) are welcome to participate as board members, but with no
more than two members.

> ## Community Meeting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Governance Meeting
```

> The community meeting is the highest level of influence and ability for change in the Pulumiverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The governance meeting is the highest level of influence and ability for change in the Pulumiverse
```

> organization. All contributors and members are welcome to join the community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organization. All contributors and members are welcome to join the governance
```

meeting. Voting rights are not required to spectate and post suggestions.

> At least one community meeting will be held annually by 1 November. This yearly community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least one governance meeting will be held annually by 1 November. This yearly governance
```

meeting has a fixed schedule:

- Boards Reporting (to summarize the year)
- Changes to policies
- Documents Election

Community members can send suggestions to change the governing documents and
raise issues; no later than two weeks before the annual community meeting.

> Community members can call for a community meeting when at least 30% of all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community members can call for a governance meeting when at least 30% of all
```

> contributors call for it.

Author: ```suggestion
Community members can call for a community meeting when at least 30% of all
members with voting rights call for it.
```

> Community members can call for a governance meeting when at least 30% of all
> contributors call for it.

Author: ```suggestion
Community members can call for a governance meeting when at least 30% of all
members with voting rights call for it.
```
